feat: flutter web example with redirects (#615)
ory/docs: docs/guides/protect-page-login/flutter-web-redirect.mdx

  mp4={mp4}
  webm={webm}
/>
```

## Create Flutter Web App

The below command will create a basic Flutter example application. We will just
add to it an authentication layer to keep the guide simple.

```shell-session
flutter create myapp
cd myapp
```

For HTTP requests we will use the [dio](https://github.com/flutterchina/dio)
package and for managing environment variable we will use
[flutter dotenv](https://github.com/java-james/flutter_dotenv).

All the packages we use throughout this guide are listed in our `pubspec.yaml`.

```mdx-code-block title="pubspec.yaml"
import pubspec from '!!raw-loader!../../../code-examples/protect-page-login/flutter_web_redirect/pubspec.yaml'
import CodeBlock from '@theme/CodeBlock'

<CodeBlock language="yaml">{pubspec}</CodeBlock>
```

Next, create an Authentication service in our `lib/services` directory, which we
will use to query the Ory APIs for session information.

```shell-session
touch lib/services/auth.dart
```

```mdx-code-block title="lib/services/auth.dart"
import auth from '!!raw-loader!../../../code-examples/protect-page-login/flutter_web_redirect/lib/services/auth.dart'

<CodeBlock language="dart">{auth}</CodeBlock>

> ```

Reviewer: Is this still about creating the app? Looks like it should be a new paragraph. Again, look at the Golang guide for structure inspirations.

Create an `.env` file in the root of our project to hold the `ORY_BASE_URL`
variable. This would be the Ory proxy URL (for example
http://localhost:3005/.ory).

```shell-session
touch .env
```

```mdx-code-block title=".env"
import env from '!!raw-loader!../../../code-examples/protect-page-login/flutter_web_redirect/env'

<CodeBlock language="text">{env}</CodeBlock>

> ```

Reviewer: Not creating the app anymore, right?

Finally, we update the `main.dart` file to check for a session cookie on the
initial load of the application. This will determine if we redirect to the
sign-in/signup page or not.

```mdx-code-block title="lib/main.dart"
import main from '!!raw-loader!../../../code-examples/protect-page-login/flutter_web_redirect/lib/main.dart'

<CodeBlock language="dart">{main}</CodeBlock>

> ```

Reviewer: Not creating the app anymore, right?

```shell-session
flutter run -d web-server --web-port 4005
```

2. Export the SDK configuration URL for the desired Ory project. You can use the
   provided playground project for testing, or export the SDK URL of your own
   Ory Cloud project.

:::info

To get your project's SDK URL, sign in at
[console.ory.sh](https://console.ory.sh/), select **Connect** from the left
navigation panel, and copy the URL from the **SDK Configuration** section.

:::

```mdx-code-block
import SdkEnvVar from '@site/src/components/SdkEnvVar'

<SdkEnvVar />
```

3. Run the Ory proxy to mirror the Ory API endpoints on your application's
   domain (`localhost`):

```shell-session
ory proxy --port 3005 http://localhost:4005
```

4. Open [http://localhost:3005](http://localhost:3005) to access the
   application. As the initial call is made by an unauthenticated user, the
   session check doesn't detect a valid session and redirects to the login page
   of the defined Ory project. <br/> <br/> From there, you can create a new
   account or sign in using an existing identity. When you sign in, the session
   becomes valid and the application shows the `Home` page with the session

>    data.

Reviewer: nicely done! <3

## Go to Production

```mdx-code-block
import ToProd from './_common/going-to-prod.mdx'

<ToProd />
```

### Release Build

With the `flutter` cli we can build a release version of our App by running the
command below:

```shell-session
flutter build web
```

We then need an HTTP server to serve the files, we will use
[dhttpd](https://pub.dev/packages/dhttpd).

```shell-session
dhttpd --host localhost --port 4005 --path build/web
```

> See here for more information on
> [Flutter Web in Production](https://docs.flutter.dev/deployment/web)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::tip
Read [this Flutter documentation](https://docs.flutter.dev/deployment/web) to learn more about getting a Flutter Web app production-ready.
:::
```

---
id: flutter-web-redirect
title: Protect a Page with Login in Flutter Web
sidebar_label: Flutter Web application
---

```mdx-code-block
import Teaser from './_common/teaser.mdx'
import mp4 from './flutter_web_redirect/screencast.mp4'
import webm from './flutter_web_redirect/screencast.webm'

<Teaser
  framework={<a href="https://flutter.dev/">Flutter</a>}
  mp4={mp4}
  webm={webm}
/>
```

## Create Flutter Web App

Run this command to create a basic Flutter application:

```shell-session
flutter create myapp
cd myapp
```

Add [dio](https://github.com/flutterchina/dio) and
[flutter dotenv](https://github.com/java-james/flutter_dotenv) to your
`pubspec.yaml` file.

> We use [dio](https://github.com/flutterchina/dio) for HTTP request and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use [dio](https://github.com/flutterchina/dio) for HTTP request handling and
```

```shell-session
touch .env
```

```mdx-code-block title=".env"
import env from '!!raw-loader!../../../code-examples/protect-page-login/flutter_web_redirect/env'

<CodeBlock language="text">{env}</CodeBlock>
```

Finally, we update the `main.dart` file to check for a session cookie on the
initial load of the application. This will determine if we redirect to the
sign-in/signup page or not.

```shell-session
touch lib/main.dart
```

```mdx-code-block title="lib/main.dart"
import main from '!!raw-loader!../../../code-examples/protect-page-login/flutter_web_redirect/lib/main.dart'

<CodeBlock language="dart">{main}</CodeBlock>
```

### Why do I Need the Ory CLI?

```mdx-code-block
import OryCLI from './_common/ory-cli.mdx'

<OryCLI />
```

## Run your Flutter Web App

```shell-session
flutter run -d web-server --web-port 4005
```

```mdx-code-block
import SdkEnvVar from '@site/src/components/SdkEnvVar'

<SdkEnvVar />
```

Start the Ory Cli proxy on [http://localhost:3005](http://localhost:3005) and
set the proxied application to [http://localhost:4005](http://localhost:4005).

```shell-session
ory proxy --port 3005 http://localhost:4005
```

> Open the browser on [http://localhost:4000](http://localhost:4000) you should

Author: nice find!

now see the Ory managed Login page. Once you have completed the login/signup
flow you should be redirected back to your Flutter Web App with a session
cookie. The session cookie can now be sent to your server-side services to
validate the session on each API call.

:::note

This example only does a simple check on the initial load of the application and
is not meant to cover complex session checking in Flutter, nor how it would
interact with your Backend server.

:::

> 

Reviewer 2: After running application locally it also shows some click counter - is it desired?

Author: It's the standard base flutter app. I can remove it if you think it's distracting

## Preparing for Production

Going to production with your app is possible in many ways. Whether you deploy
it on Kubernetes, AWS, a VM, or a RaspberryPi is up to you. To get your app
working with Ory, your app and Ory must be available under the same common
domain (e.g. `https://ory.example.com` and `https://www.example.com`).

The easiest way to connect Ory to your domain is to connect Ory to a subdomain
of yours. You can do this easily by
[adding a Custom Domain to your Cloud project](../custom-domains.mdx)!

With the custom domain set up, you do not need the Ory Proxy anymore and will
use the configured custom domain in your API calls:

```shell-session
export ORY_BASE_URL=https://ory.example.com

> ```

Reviewer 2: Can we also link the full source code here? Since we have it checked in, would be nice to link it in a form of small note.

Author: Once this is merged it will work under master branch. We can do the same for the `go` example and others. I also improved the projects readme a bit.

set a session cookie**. To do this, we will rely on the Ory Managed UI for
login/registration instead of building our own.

## Create Flutter Web App

:::note

This guide assumes you already have flutter installed on your system. Please
follow the official installation guide if you have not at
https://docs.flutter.dev/get-started/install

:::

The below command will create a basic Flutter example application. We will just
add to it an authentication layer to keep the guide simple.

```shell-session
flutter create myapp
cd myapp
```

For HTTP requests we will use the [dio](https://github.com/flutterchina/dio)
package.

All the packages we use throughout this guide are listed in our `pubspec.yaml`.

```mdx-code-block title="pubspec.yaml"
import pubspec from '!!raw-loader!../../../code-examples/protect-page-login/flutter_web_redirect/pubspec.yaml'
import CodeBlock from '@theme/CodeBlock'

<CodeBlock language="yaml">{pubspec}</CodeBlock>
```

Package sources:

- https://github.com/flutterchina/dio
- https://github.com/java-james/flutter_dotenv

Next let us create an Authentication service in our `lib/services` directory,

> which we will use to query the Ory APIs for session information.

Reviewer: `Let us` -> no

Next, create (...)

You're showing somebody how to do something. Instructing.

```shell-session
touch lib/services/auth.dart
```

```mdx-code-block title="lib/services/auth.dart"
import auth from '!!raw-loader!../../../code-examples/protect-page-login/flutter_web_redirect/lib/services/auth.dart'

<CodeBlock language="dart">{auth}</CodeBlock>
```

Then we need to create an `.env` file in the root of our project to hold the
`ORY_BASE_URL` variable. This would be the Ory proxy URL (e.g.

> http://localhost:3005/.ory) and the path to the Ory API `/api/kratos/public`.

Reviewer: `Then we need` -> no

Remember, you're writing instructions for somebody. 

`e.g.` -> don't use. Use `For example` instead.

```shell-session
touch .env
```

```mdx-code-block title=".env"
import env from '!!raw-loader!../../../code-examples/protect-page-login/flutter_web_redirect/env'

<CodeBlock language="text">{env}</CodeBlock>
```

Finally, we update the `main.dart` file to check for a session cookie on the
initial load of the application. This will determine if we redirect to the
sign-in/signup page or not.

```shell-session
touch lib/main.dart
```

```mdx-code-block title="lib/main.dart"
import main from '!!raw-loader!../../../code-examples/protect-page-login/flutter_web_redirect/lib/main.dart'

<CodeBlock language="dart">{main}</CodeBlock>

> ```

Author: This file is being changed, even though it feels like a small change - we need to show the whole file and how these changes fit into the created "main" file.

There is no way of splitting this.

> ```

Reviewer: :(
